feat(webrtc): add WebRTC (prev. browser-to-browser) spec (#497)
libp2p/specs: webrtc/webrtc.md

# WebRTC

| Lifecycle Stage | Maturity      | Status | Latest Revision |
|-----------------|---------------|--------|-----------------|
| 1A              | Working Draft | Active | r0, 2023-03-03  |

Authors: [@mxinden]

## Motivation

libp2p transport protocol enabling two private nodes (e.g. two browsers) to establish a direct connection.

Browser _A_ wants to connect to Browser node _B_ with the help of server node _R_.

> Both _A_ and _B_ can not listen for incoming connections due to running in a constrained environment (i.e. a browser) with its only transport capability being the W3C WebRTC `RTCPeerConnection` API and being behind a NAT and/or firewall.

Reviewer: ``` suggestion
Both _A_ and _B_ cannot listen for incoming connections due to running in a constrained environment (i.e. a browser) with its only transport capability being the W3C WebRTC `RTCPeerConnection` API and being behind a NAT and/or firewall.
```

Author: :+1: 2b506ab

Note that _A_ and/or _B_ may as well be non-browser nodes behind NATs and/or firewalls.
However, for two non-browser nodes using TCP or QUIC hole punching with [DCUtR] will be the more efficient way to establish a direct connection.

On a historical note, this specification replaces the existing [libp2p WebRTC star](https://github.com/libp2p/js-libp2p-webrtc-star) and [libp2p WebRTC direct](https://github.com/libp2p/js-libp2p-webrtc-direct) protocols.

## Connection Establishment

> 1. _B_ advertises support for the WebRTC browser-to-browser protocol by appending `/webrtc` to its relayed multiaddr e.g. `/ip6/fe80::883:a581:fff1:833/udp/4001/quic/webtransport/certhash/<hash1>/p2p/<relay-peer-id>/p2p-circuit/webrtc/p2p/<b-peer-id>`.

Reviewer: I think that should be a separate spec. Sukun will start working on dial prioritization soon, and we'll probably add a "best practice" document here.

> 1. _B_ advertises support for the WebRTC browser-to-browser protocol by appending `/webrtc` to its relayed multiaddr e.g. `/ip6/fe80::883:a581:fff1:833/udp/4001/quic/webtransport/certhash/<hash1>/p2p/<relay-peer-id>/p2p-circuit/webrtc/p2p/<b-peer-id>`.

Reviewer 2: Should we just leave it out here then?

```suggestion
1. _B_ advertises support for the WebRTC browser-to-browser protocol by appending `/webrtc` to its relayed multiaddr e.g. `<relayed-multiaddr>/webrtc/p2p/<b-peer-id>`.
```

> 1. _B_ advertises support for the WebRTC browser-to-browser protocol by appending `/webrtc` to its relayed multiaddr e.g. `/ip6/fe80::883:a581:fff1:833/udp/4001/quic/webtransport/certhash/<hash1>/p2p/<relay-peer-id>/p2p-circuit/webrtc/p2p/<b-peer-id>`.

Author: Fine by me. Done with 249ff1b.

> 2. Upon discovery of _B_'s multiaddress, _A_ learns that _B_ supports the WebRTC transport through the (constrained) W3C API and knows how to establish a relayed connection to _B_ to run the `/webrtc-signaling` protocol on top.

Reviewer: In favor of removing. First question that popped into my mind was: "what's the unconstrained W3C API?"

3. _A_ establish a relayed connection to _B_.
   Note that further steps depend on the relayed connection to be authenticated, i.e. that data sent on the relayed connection can be trusted.

4. _A_ (outbound side of relayed connection) creates an `RTCPeerConnection` provided by a W3C compliant WebRTC implementation (e.g. a browser).
   See [STUN](#stun) section on what STUN servers to configure at creation time.
   _A_ creates an SDP offer via `RTCPeerConnection.createOffer()`.

>    _A_ initiates the signaling protocol to _B_ via the relayed connection from (1), see [Signaling Protocol](#signaling-protocol) and sends the offer to _B_.

Reviewer: Do we need to restrict who can initiate the WebRTC connection? It would be nice if on any relayed connection, any of those nodes could decide to try a WebRTC connection attempt.

Reviewer 2: I am in favor of not restricting it.

Peers can also just try to speak the signaling protocol. We should keep in mind that advertising via `/webrtc` is just one way.

A node may not advertise via the listen address but still speak the signaling protocol.

Author: @marten-seemann @thomaseizinger how does one prevent both peers to start the process and thus two direct WebRTC connections being established?

I suggest we stick with the convention that _A_ initiates the signaling protocol, though require _A_ to also be able to accept an incoming signaling protocol stream in case we ever want to support the process from the other direction (_B_ -> _A_).

Author: Extended through 01f78a7. Let me know what you think.

Author: Extended through 01f78a7. Let me know what you think.

Reviewer: > Extended through [01f78a7](https://github.com/libp2p/specs/commit/01f78a735765fc33ecc25f56287148ebf8aa91de). Let me know what you think.

Deduping is indeed an issue. I like this new text since we're still allowing any side to initiate the request, this might become useful later.

> 5. _B_ (inbound side of relayed connection) creates an `RTCPeerConnection`.

Reviewer 2: What is the trigger for this? The incoming connection from the relay or the incoming `/webrtc-signaling` protocol?

Author: The latter. Clarified in ad2549b. Thanks.

   Again see [STUN](#stun) section on what STUN servers to configure at creation time.
   _B_ receives _A_'s offer sent in (2) via the signaling protocol stream and provides the offer to its `RTCPeerConnection` via `RTCPeerConnection.setRemoteDescription`.
   _B_ then creates an answer via `RTCPeerConnection.createAnswer` and sends it to _A_ via the existing signaling protocol stream (see [Signaling Protocol](#signaling-protocol)).

6. _A_ receives _B_'s answer via the signaling protocol stream and sets it locally via `RTCPeerConnection.setRemoteDescription`.

> 7. _A_ and _B_ send their local ICE candidates via the existing signaling protocol stream.

Reviewer: Should we mention that this is using trickling? Is there a browser option that needs to be set to enable trickling or do browsers just do it automatically?

Reviewer 2: Line 42 says that we add them as they come in. That is the process of trickling right? Not sure it needs an extra mention.

Maybe we can say:

```suggestion
7. _A_ and _B_ send their local ICE candidates via the existing signaling protocol stream to enable trickle ICE.
```

That would make clear that we are doing this for the purpose of trickling.

Author: Sounds good. Added via fca22b3.

   On failure _B_ and _A_ reset the signaling protocol stream.

   Behavior for transferring data on a relayed connection, in the case where the direct connection failed, is out of scope for this specification and dependent on the application.

9. Messages on `RTCDataChannel`s on the established `RTCPeerConnection` are framed using the message framing mechanism described in [multiplexing].

## STUN

A node needs to discover its public IP and port, which is forwarded to the remote node in order to connect to the local node.
On non-browser libp2p nodes doing a hole punch with TCP or QUIC, the libp2p node discovers its public address via the [identify] protocol.
One can not use the [identify] protocol on browser nodes to discover ones public IP and port given that the browser uses a new port for each connection.
For example say that the local browser node establishes a WebRTC connection C1 via browser-to-server to a server node and runs the [identify] protocol.
The returned observed public port P1 will most likely (depending on the NAT) be a different port than the port observed on another connection C2.

> The only browser supported mechanism to discover ones public IP and port for a given connection is the non-libp2p protocol STUN.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The only browser supported mechanism to discover ones public IP and port for a given WebRTC connection is the non-libp2p protocol STUN.
```

This is why this specification depends on STUN, and thus the availability of one or more STUN servers for _A_ and _B_ to discovery their public addresses.

There are various publicly available STUN servers.

> As an alternative one may operate dedicated STUN servers for a given libp2p network.

Reviewer: Implementations MAY use one of the publicly available STUN servers, or deploy a dedicated server for a given libp2p network.

Author: 7a2bf0a

Further specification of the usage of STUN is out of scope for this specifitcation.

> As an aside, note that _A_ and _B_ do not need to use the same STUN server in order to establish a direct WebRTC connection.

Reviewer: Nit:
```suggestion
It is not necessary that _A_ and _B_ do not need to use the same STUN server in order to establish a direct WebRTC connection.
```

Author: Adopted the first as it stresses that there is no reason to use the same one, the latter sounds to me like it is an option to use different ones.

3425f01

Reviewer 2: Can we at least reduce the negation please:

```suggestion
It is not necessary for _A_ and _B_ to use the same STUN server when establishing a WebRTC connection.
```

Author: :+1: done in 554e3db. Thanks.

Browser _A_ wants to connect to Browser node _B_ with the help of server node _R_.
Both _A_ and _B_ cannot listen for incoming connections due to running in a constrained environment (i.e. a browser) with its only transport capability being the W3C WebRTC `RTCPeerConnection` API and being behind a NAT and/or firewall.
Note that _A_ and/or _B_ may as well be non-browser nodes behind NATs and/or firewalls.
However, for two non-browser nodes using TCP or QUIC hole punching with [DCUtR] will be the more efficient way to establish a direct connection.

On a historical note, this specification replaces the existing [libp2p WebRTC star](https://github.com/libp2p/js-libp2p-webrtc-star) and [libp2p WebRTC direct](https://github.com/libp2p/js-libp2p-webrtc-direct) protocols.

## Connection Establishment

1. _B_ advertises support for the WebRTC browser-to-browser protocol by appending `/webrtc` to its relayed multiaddr, meaning it takes the form of `<relayed-multiaddr>/webrtc/p2p/<b-peer-id>`.

2. Upon discovery of _B_'s multiaddress, _A_ learns that _B_ supports the WebRTC transport and knows how to establish a relayed connection to _B_ to run the `/webrtc-signaling` protocol on top.

> 3. _A_ establish a relayed connection to _B_.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. _A_ establishes a relayed connection to _B_.
````
